- [[logseq mobile development]]
	- **Setup local development**
		- `sudo gem install cocoapods --http-proxy http://127.0.0.1:8193` install cocoapods with http-proxy
		- use the following commands ==from *ios/App* directory== to fix **ffi_c.bundle** related issue for M1 MacBook
			- `sudo arch -x86_64 gem install ffi --http-proxy http://127.0.0.1:8193`
			- `arch -x86_64 pod install`
				- shows the following warnings
					- <pre>
					  [!] The `Logseq [Debug]` target overrides the `ALWAYS_EMBED_SWIFT_STANDARD_LIBRARIES` build setting defined in `Pods/Target Support Files/Pods-Logseq/Pods-Logseq.debug.xcconfig'. This can lead to problems with the CocoaPods installation
					      - Use the `$(inherited)` flag, or
					      - Remove the build settings from the target.
					  
					  [!] The `Logseq [Release]` target overrides the `ALWAYS_EMBED_SWIFT_STANDARD_LIBRARIES` build setting defined in `Pods/Target Support Files/Pods-Logseq/Pods-Logseq.release.xcconfig'. This can lead to problems with the CocoaPods installation
					      - Use the `$(inherited)` flag, or
					      - Remove the build settings from the target.
					  </pre>
			- What is the `arch` command?
				- Display the name of the system architecture, or run a command under a different architecture.
		- **Build the development app**
			- comment in `server` section in **capacitor.config.ts**, and replace `process.env.LOGSEQ_APP_ASERVER_URL` with your `http://your-local-ip-address:3001` (run `ifconfig` to check).
			    ```typescript
			    server: {
			        url: "process.env.LOGSEQ_APP_ASERVER_URL",
			        cleartext: true
			        } 
			    ```
			- Run `yarn && yarn app-watch` from the Logseq project root directory in terminal.
			- Run `npx cap sync ios` in another terminal to copy web assets from public to *ios/App/App/public*, and create *capacitor.config.json* in *ios/App/App*, and update iOS plugins.
			- Connect your iOS device to MacBook.
			- Run `npx cap open ios` to open Logseq project in Xcode, and build the app there.
		- or, you can run `bb dev:ios-app` to do those steps with one command if you are on MacOS. To download bb, see https://github.com/babashka/babashka#installation. Also, in order to use mobile bb tasks on macOS, `gsed` needs to be installed in your system (run `brew install gnu-sed` to install).
	-